n3lar
=====

ASCII art represents a group of graphic design techniques that produce images from printable characters. It originated in its modern form in times when printers had limited graphical capabilities and transfering images over computer networks was inapropriate due to bandwidth constraints. It has its value as an interesting reminder of graphical expression on early computer interfaces.

This git repository contains an implementation of a machine learning approach to ASCII art rendering. As is the usual way, the program subdivides an image into a rectangular grid and replaces each cell with an appropriate font glyph. The keyword in the last sentence is 'appropriate'. This program uses a decision tree to determine an ASCII glyph for each image region. The tree was learned by first converting a large set of images to ASCII art using the SSIM index (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_similarity) and then using the obtained data as a training set. The program applies adaptive histogram equalization technique (CLAHE algorithm, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_histogram_equalization) as a preprocessing step. In some cases, this can dramatically improve results. On the other hand, it is pretty slow. Thus, if you would like to port this program to a mobile device, you better omitt this frame preprocessing.

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:: COMPILING THE PROGRAM ::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::

To compile and run the program, you will need:
(1) C compiler
(2) make
(3) OpenCV library

The program can be compiled on *nix machines by using the provided makefile (some small modifications are usually required). Just make sure that you have installed all prerequisites.

The program uses OpenCV library to obtain data from webcams. Thus, if you wish to redistribute it or its modifications in binary form, it has to reproduce the OpenCV license (read more at http://opencv.willowgarage.com/wiki/).

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:: HOW TO USE THE PROGRAM ::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Run the program without any arguments (this is equivalent to double-clicking the executable file). In this case, the program will read the frames from the webcam attached to the computer and render them using ASCII characters.

To terminate the execution of the program, press 'q'.

:::::::::::::
:: CONTACT ::
:::::::::::::

For any additional information contact me at neno.markus@gmail.com

Copyright (c) 2013, Nenad Markuš
All rights reserved.